Document .NET Aspire support (#6844)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/hosting/aspire/sample.md

---
title: Hosting endpoints in .NET Aspire
summary: Hosting multiple NServiceBus endpoints in an .NET Aspire application host
component: Core
reviewed: 2024-09-20
---

[.NET Aspire](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/) is a stack for developing distributed applications provided by Microsoft.

> This sample shows a .NET Aspire AppHost project which orchestrates multiple NServiceBus endpoints, along with docker images providing a RabbitMQ transport and PostgreSQL persistence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample shows a .NET Aspire AppHost project that orchestrates multiple NServiceBus endpoints. It also launches the following infrastructure, a RabbitMQ server for the configured transport and a PostgreSQL server for persistence.
```

> This sample shows a .NET Aspire AppHost project which orchestrates multiple NServiceBus endpoints, along with docker images providing a RabbitMQ transport and PostgreSQL persistence.

Author: ```suggestion
This sample shows a .NET Aspire AppHost project that orchestrates multiple NServiceBus endpoints, wiring up the required infrastructure pieces including a RabbitMQ broker and PostgreSQL database.
```

## Running the sample

1. Run the AspireDemo.AppHost project
2. Open the .NET Aspire dashboard
3. Review the metrics, traces, and structured log entries of each of the resources

> [!NOTE]
> This sample requires [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [.NET Aspire](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/) to run.

## Code walkthrough

### AspireDemo.AppHost

The [.NET Aspire orchestration project](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/fundamentals/app-host-overview) defines multiple resources and the relationships between them:

- A RabbitMQ instance named `transport`
- A PostgreSQL server named `database`
  - A database named `shipping-db`
  - An instance of [pgweb](https://sosedoff.github.io/pgweb/) to access the database

> - 4 projects, each of which is an NServiceBus endpoint. All of these projects reference the `transport` resource.

Author: ```suggestion
- Four projects, each of which is an NServiceBus endpoint. All of these projects reference the `transport` resource.
```
